# `scnn_experiments` 

This repository provides code to replicate the experiments in the paper [Fast Convex Optimization for Two-Layer ReLU Networks: Equivalent Model Classes and Cone Decompositions](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.01331) by Aaron Mishkin, Arda Sahiner, and Mert Pilanci.

### Requirements

Python 3.8 or newer. The necessary dependencies are listed in `requirements.txt`. 

### Setup

Clone the repository using

```
git clone https://github.com/aaronpmishkin/scnn_experiments.git
```

#### MacOS/Unix

We provide a script for easy setup on Unix systems. Run the `setup.sh` file with

```
./setup.sh
```

This will:

1. Create a virtual environment in `.venv` and install the project dependencies. 
3. Install `scaffold` in development mode.
4. Create the `data`, `figures`, `tables`, and `results`  directories. 

After running `setup.sh`, you need to activate the virtualenv using 

```
source .venv/bin/activate
``` 


### Replications 

The experiments are run via a command-line interface.
Most experiments can be replicated with a single command, but some require
a sequence of experiments to be executed in the correct order.

#### Running Experiments 

First, make sure that the virtual environment is active. 
Running `where python` in bash will show you where the active Python binaries are; this will point to a file in `code/.venv/bin` if the virtual environment is active.

Scripts are executed by calling `scripts/run_experiment.py` with the `-E` flag to specify an experiment name, like in the following: 
```
python scripts/run_experiment.py -E "test"
```
There are several command line arguments that can be passed to `run_experiment.py`, such as `-V` for verbose execution, `-F` to force re-runs, etc.
Try 
```
python scripts/run_experiment.py --help 
```
To see all the available options.

Experiment configurations are located in `scripts/exp_configs`. 
The configuration `scripts/exp_configs/test.py` is provided so you can 
familiarize yourself with the execution system.

Pre-defined `sbatch` configurations for `slurm` are provided in `sbatch_scripts` for transparency and convenience.
These are the exact configurations used to run the original experiments on the [Sherlock Cluster](https://www.sherlock.stanford.edu).
A flag specifying which `sbatch` script can be passed to `run_experiment.py`.
This will be used to submit `slurm` jobs if the `-N` parameter (used to specify number of nodes) 
is also passed.


#### Replicating Specific Experiments

All experiments are named to corresponding with the figure/table which they
generate in the paper.
For example, Figure 1 can be generated by running the `figure_1` experiment
defined in `scripts/exp_configs/figure_1.py` and then using
```
python scripts/make_figure_1_6.py
```
To generate Figures 1 and 6.
Check each experiment file to see the exact experiment names.
As noted above, some experiments have specific orders in which they must
be executed; these are:

- Table 2:
    - Run the experiments in `table_2_gs.py` first.
    - Run `extract_table_2_best_params.py`.
    - Run the experiments in `table_2_final.py`.

- Table 3: 
    - Run the experiments in `table_3_gs.py` first. 
     Note that `table_3_nc_relu_gs` must be run **after** `table_3_relu_gs`, since the latter experiment is used to determine the widths of the non-convex networks.
     You must update a file-path used to load experiments results before running `table_3_nc_relu_gs`.
    - Run `extract_table_3_best_params.py`.
    - Run the experiments in `table_3_final.py`.
     Again, there are several file-paths to update and `table_3_nc_relu_final` must be run after `table_3_relu_support`. 

- Figure 4:
    - Run the experiments in `table_4.py`. 
     Again, you must run `figure_4_relu` before `figure_4_nc_relu` and it is necessary to update a file-path before running the latter. 

The remaining experiments are straightforward to replicate.

### Bugs or Other Issues

Please open an issue if you experience any bugs or have trouble replicating the experiments. 
